hemophilia and christmas disease, especially in regard to the specific complication of pseudotumor formation (occurrence, pathogenesis, treatment, prognosis).

823:
discussion sur les pseudotumeurs osseuses des hemophiles doctors queneau and josso each described one case of pseudotumour of the calcaneum analagous to that described by trillat and favregilly; they demonstrated xrays; dr. alagille referred to a haemophilic cyst of the maxilla and dr. favregilly to a cyst of the perineum; dr. kugler had seen a case where an erroneous diagnosis of osteosarcoma had been made.

hemophilia and christmas disease, especially in regard to the specific complication of pseudotumor formation (occurrence, pathogenesis, treatment, prognosis).
825:
haemophilic blood cyst a mongol boy of ten, a known haemophiliac, was seen in the orthopaedic department of southmead hospital in may 1962 with a swelling of the left foot. the parents were aware of a steady increase in size since the swelling was first noticed two months before.  on examination, a cystic swelling was seen to occupy the forefoot, the skin on the dorsum being stretched over it and a dusky red in colour (fig. 1).  radiographs showed destruction of the proximal twothirds of the third metatarsal bone, an appearance consistent, it was thought with destruction from within by an expanding lesion (fig. 2).  the diagnosis of a haemophilic blood cyst was made.

hemophilia and christmas disease, especially in regard to the specific complication of pseudotumor formation (occurrence, pathogenesis, treatment, prognosis).
827:
osteopatia in emofilia the aa. present the case material of the literature and one personal remark of extrarticular osteopathy in hemophilia.  they examine the anatomic and clinical picture of the illness in its most important and less known peculiarities and they dwell upon the curative medicosurgical problems of the affection.
831:
haemophilia in sweden vii. incidence, treatment and prophylaxis of arthropathy and other musculoskeletal manifestations of haemophilia a and b the clinical material consisted of 242 of the 308 known haemophiliacs (a and b) in sweden.  the investigation included clinical examination of all major joints in 95 of 116 patients with severe haemophilia, in 38 of 65 patients with moderate haemophilia, and in 24 of 127 patients with mild haemophilia, and roentgen examination of practically all joints found to be abnormal at the clinical examination.  in addition information about 7 patients with severe haemophilia, 21 with moderate haemophilia, and 57 with mild haemophilia was obtained by questionnaire only. the degree of arthropathy (grades 2, 3 and 4) was classified largely according to depalma and cotler (1956).  evaluation of general disability was made with regard to ability to manage (walk, dress, eat, toilet) with out help.  this latter evaluation comprised also extraarticular manifesta tions of haemophilia.
843:
the haemophilic pseudotumour or haemophilic subperiosteal haematoma the case history of a haemophiliac in whom a large haematoma of the thigh was treated by amputation of the limb is described. examination of the available radiographs and of the histology led to the conclusion that the cyst was subperiosteal in origin. evidence is presented to support the hypothesis that haemophilic pseudotumours are always associated with subperiosteal haemorrhage, and that those haemophilic cysts which are confined to muscle have little or no effect on the adjacent bone.



hemophilic:[827, 840, 1022, 1025, 1031, 1032]
pseudotumor: [1022]  [1018, 1025]


hemophilic:[1032]
hemophilic pseudotumor:[1022,1025]
hemophilia:[1026]
angiohemophilia: [1027]

hemophilia and christmas disease, especially in regard to the specific complication of pseudotumor formation (occurrence, pathogenesis, treatment, prognosis).
1019:
major surgery on the severe hemophiliac, lessons in management. three cases of pseudotumor of the thigh which required surgical amputation and one case of open pericardial drainage for cardiac tamponade are briefly reported in severe hemophiliacs.  in the first case hemostasis, following amputation, was produced, but the patient died of septicemia secondary to proximally infected tissues; the level of amputation should, therefore, be proximal to all grossly infected tissues.  in the second case, with infected massive pseudotumor of the left thigh, 5 separate operative procedures were performed.  the last procedure was elective revision of skin flaps at the hip disarticulation site.  here application of the knowledge gained from previous experience resulted in a completely uncomplicated postoperative course by dint of timing of the surgical procedure in relation to control of infection, loss of plasma fastness, and the judicious use of antibiotic and directcurrent electrocoagulation therapy. a plea is made to avoid the use of plasma and ahg therapy in hemophilias for trivial reasons and to consider patients for surgical procedures early in the course of their complications, which demand surgery, at a time when the patient is still responsive to hematologic therapy and prior to the onset of infection in areas of hematoma. it is felt that a second significant hemorrhage in any particular site constitutes a bona fide indication for surgical intervention, long before the time when surgery is considered as the last resort by the physician, patient and family.  although the authors believe that surgery in the hemophiliac is not to be taken lightly, they do not endorse the prevailing nihilistic attitude that has resulted in temporizing delays which can only guarantee a fatal outcome.

hemophilia and christmas disease, especially in regard to the specific complication of pseudotumor formation (occurrence, pathogenesis, treatment, prognosis).
1020:
immunological demonstration of factor viii protein in the plasma of hemophiliacs and its value for an insight into hemophilia a. by immunization of rabbits one obtains antisera against human factor viii, the action of the immunsera has been determined using a modification of the thromboplastingenerations test (the factor viii neutralization test).  the antibodies against factor viii are equally absorbed by either normal or hemophilia a plasma.  this observation shows that hemophilia a plasma contains as much factor viii protein as normal plasma does. in normal and hemophilia a serum one finds at a lower level similar concentrations of factor viii.  in analogy with crossreacting substances (crm) in bacteria mutants an hypothesis has been made according to which the authors are dealing with the product of a genetically altered synthesis of factor viii. this product is functionally less active but possesses the same antigenic determinants as the normal factor viii.  some inhibitor properties of the hemophilia plasma can be explained by competitive inhibition made possible by the similarity of structure.  the fact that the inhibitor discovered by mammen and factor viii have similar properties support the hypothesis.  the theory of some authors according to which the plasma of an hemophiliac a contains normal amounts of a normal factor viii blocked by a specific inhibitor, the pathogenetic agent of hemophilia a is rejected because of genetic considerations and because the accelerator appearing after ether treatment of hemophilia a plasma is not identical with factor viii.
1021:
haemophilic pseudotumours (3 cases). the 2 first cases of haemophilic pseudotumours in 2 adults affected with haemophilia a reported are remarkable on account of their clinical latency and their intertrochanteric localization.  the third, in a haemophiliac b, is very extensive and is accompanied by very marked clinical symptoms of tumour.  there is an extensive femoral gap with a subjacent image of osseous infarction and a progressive turgid tumour of the iliac wing of the same side.  the literature data stress the discrepancy between the progressive character of this veritable tumour and the absence of any sign of histological malignancy.
1022:
proteinlosing enteropathy complicating prolonged bleeding in hemophilia. gastrointestinal bleeding in a severe hemophiliac continued for 110 days, and 263 pints of fresh blood were replaced.  treatment with eaca, steroids, and factor viii, rich fibrinogen did not control bleeding. marked hypoproteinemia developed by the 94th day of bleeding.  a proteinlosing enteropathy was suspected on the basis of xray findings of mucosal thickening and altered motility.  discontinuance of steroids and protein replacement resulted in the appearance of a more normal small bowel mucosal pattern and coincided with the cessation of bleeding.
1024:
some bone lesions in the course of blood diseases with special reference to the formation of bony callus and to the treatment of fractures in patients suffering from blood diseases. after some preliminary remarks on the embryology and physiology of the bone marrow and on the mechanism of coagulation of the blood, the authors pass on to a consideration of the genesis of bony callus, and the treatment of fractures in patients suffering from blood diseases.  an account is given on the basis of some examples of pathological fractures, and also of some traumatic fractures in subjects affected by various kinds of blood diseases such as solitary myeloma, polyosteotic plasmocytoma, waldenstroem's syndrome, the coagulopathic syndrome from a structural defect of the fibrin coagulum, and hemophilia.  fractures in patients with blood diseases are characterized by an abnormal course, and, for an effecient cure, it is necessary to make an accurate diagnosis with regard to the preexisting blood diseases and to reestablish hemostasis when this has been changed, to prevent hemorrhages, and to correct any plasma defect that may be present and which are reflected in the formation of the bony callus.
1026:
tumorlike bone lesions in hemophilia. this report deals with the clinical and radiologic findings in a hemophilic pseudotumor of the femur observed over a period of 10 yr.  the pathogenesis, treatment and radiologic differential diagnosis are discussed.
1027:
concurrent hemophilia and christmas' disease in one family. a study is presented of a number of generations of a family in whom two members had christmas' disease and three hemophilia a. it is suspected that the preceding generations must have been afflicted with hemophilia ab, or a mutation in xchromosome genes which are responsible for both types of hemophilia must have occurred in the grandmother's family.  in her daughters the genes responsible for hemophilia ab segregated so that their children and grandchildren inherited only one type of hemophilia i.e. hemophilia a or christmas' disease.  relevant genetic considerations are briefly reviewed.
1032:
femoral neuropathy in hemophilia.    six new cases of femoral neuropathy in hemophilic patients are described.  the syndrome begins with severe pain in the groin, in the inferior aspect of the thigh, and deep in the hip region.  this is followed by a pronounced contracture of the hip in flexion and external rotation.  a tender swelling appears in the iliac fossa and groin with a depression in the center corresponding to the inguinal ligament.  finally, a flaccid paralysis of the quadriceps femoris and diminution or absence of sensation in the anteromedial aspect of the thigh and proximal portion of the leg, with a depressed or absent patellar reflex, is discovered.  the authors propose that this syndrome is the result of hemorrhage in the iliopsoas muscle at the musculotendinous junction beneath the iliacus fascia and that the femoral nerve becomes compressed beneath the unyielding inguinal ligament superiorly and the iliopectineal ligament medially. treatment consists in bed rest, analgesics, and freshfrozen plasma during the acute phase.  during the convalescent phase, a hessing long brace is used to protect the knee from hemarthrosis until functional return of the quadriceps femoris has occurred.  to date, the validity of the theory that the femoralnerve palsy is the result of iliopsoas hemorrhage at the musculotendinous junction and compression of the femoral nerve beneath the inguinal ligament has not been verified.  the authors anticipate some day seeing a nonhemophilic patient with a traumatic iliacus hemorrhage and femoral neuropathy.  should such an opportunity present itself, exploration beneath poupart's ligament may show the femoral nerve to be compressed and thus confirm the proposed cause of the clinical picture.
1033:
hemorrhagic episodes in hemophilia: a 5year prospective study.    medicosocial studies of hemophilia are of particular clinical importance in allowing an assessment of the likely course of the disease at different ages and for differing grades of severity, and in providing knowledge of which complications cause the most disability, loss of education, and earning capacity.  they also overcome the distorted clinical impression of the disease which arises from the recurrent admission of the same few severely affected hemophiliacs.  owing to the considerable individual variation in the number and severity of complications in different hemophiliacs an accurate individual prognosis can never be given.  in general, however, the number of spontaneous episodes per year decreases with age, while the severity of individual episodes tends to increase, at least until the age of 21 yr.  there is general agreement that the bulk of hospital hemophilic admissions are due to hemarthroses and that hemophilic arthropathy involves the knee more than it does any other joint. the increased time spent in hospital per episode in later life is in part at least due to the development of relatively unstable weightbearing joints due to hemophilic arthropathy and associated muscle atrophy. thus the correct management of individual hemarthroses in childhood is of considerable importance, and at the present time too little is known of the best possible treatment for these episodes. little is known of the pathological mechanisms of hemophilic arthropathy and whether it is the presence of blood or its presence under tension which leads to joint destruction.  thus opinions differ concerning the routine admission of all hemarthroses to hospital regardless of severity and also about the advisability of joint aspiration in an attempt to avoid the development of destructive arthropathy.  because of the individual variation between patients, the changes in the pattern of the disease with age, and the difficulty of obtaining suitable control patients these questions can be answered only by further longterm prospective medicosocial studies.
